Configuration
Conda-build can be configured through various methods, including environment variables, command-line arguments, and configuration files. This section documents the available configuration options and how to use them.

The priority of configuration options is as follows (as per the `conda cli documentation`_): 1. Command-line arguments 2. Environment variables 3. Conda configuration file (.condarc) 4. Default values (if any)

Command-line options
See the individual command documentation (e.g., conda-build) for available command-line options that can override configuration file settings.

Environment variables
See Environment variables for a complete list of environment variables that can be used to configure conda-build behavior.

Conda configuration file (.condarc)
You can configure conda-build behavior by adding settings to your .condarc file. The .condarc file can be located in your home directory, the current working directory, or specified via the --config-file command-line option. conda-build has its own section in the .condarc file, which is used to configure conda-build. Also, note that other conda configurations may also affect conda-build behavior, such as the channels setting.

Package format configuration example
The package format determines which type of conda package is created during the build process. Conda-build supports two package formats:

Legacy format (.tar.bz2): The traditional conda package format

Modern format (.conda): The newer, more efficient package format (default)

You can configure the default package format using the conda_build.pkg_format setting in your .condarc file:

conda_build:
  pkg_format: 2  # Use .conda format (default)
  # or
  pkg_format: 1  # Use .tar.bz2 format
Accepted values for pkg_format:

1 or "1" - Legacy .tar.bz2 format

2 or "2" - Modern .conda format (default)

.tar.bz2 - Legacy format (alternative syntax)

.conda - Modern format (alternative syntax)

Example .condarc file
conda_build:
  pkg_format: 1
  verbose: true
  debug: false

channels:
  - conda-forge
  - defaults
Note

The package format can also be specified per-build using the --package-format command-line option, which will override the condarc setting.

